Okay. Thank you, thank you for your patience.
We've got an allocated 20 minutes there, but we'll, we're also conscious that
we've, um, got hea- hearings a- after you.
Yeah.
So we're in your hands.
Very good, very good. We actually had our chair joining us, um, on
Zoom-
Yeah, I think he's just joined.
Um, so I think he's there. He, he's gonna start off with a few introductory remarks
and then over to me, but yeah.
Okay. Have we got Mr. Kensington on, online yet?
Ah, yes we do. Good morning.
Oh, Mr. Kensington. For the, for the benefit of the live audience, if you could
al- ah, introduce you and your colleagues and your organization as well.
Thank you.
For sure, certainly. Good morning, Chair and committee members, I'm John
Kensington. I am the Chair of the External, uh, Reporting Board, or XRB as it's
often referred to. I'm joined by Wendy, uh, Venter, our Chief
Executive, and Michelle Lombard, our Director of Accounting Standards in the
room with you. And we're an independent community,
um, that is responsible for setting, uh,
external reporting and assurance standards.
Um, and look, thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this important
inquiry. We see this as a rare, uh, and
timely chance to improve New Zealand's performance reporting
system to deliver lasting public benefit.
Now, New Zealand's public sector financial reporting is internationally
recognized and robust, but our
non-financial, uh, performance reporting has not kept
pace. Uh, large volumes of information are produced, yet Parliament and the public
don't consistently receive a clear and integrated view of what government
aims to achieve, how money is used to achieve it, and what process
is being made, particularly on long-term end it- uh, issues.
As an independent Crown entity, and the national, uh, external
reporting and assurance standard-setter working in this sometimes complicated
space, this is our core business. The XRB sets
fit for purpose reporting and assurance standards across our entire
economy. The public, the private, and the not-for-profit sectors to
deliver consistent, trustworthy information that users
need. Recently, 83% of our, um, stakeholders
noted they were very satisfied with the XRB's contribution
towards that purpose. Now, if you were to use a house building
analogy, you wouldn't build one without all the required tradies being
involved. And as you build this new performance framework, you
probably should, uh, and we probably should be seen as one of those
tradies alongside Treasury, the OAG, and others.
We welcome the system change and the opportunity to play a part in the reform
process, and contributing to the evolution and enhancement of this
reporting is one of our strategic priorities.
What we'll d- do, if you don't mind, is take the p- position as read and then get
Wendy, who's in the room, to briefly highlight some of those main
points.
Um, good. And thank- thank you, John.
And- and my thanks to the committee for this, um, opportunity to appear.
We very much welcome it. Uh, I just wanted to make some key points and
really (coughing drowns out speaker) leave time for any questions that you might
have. Um, first point is really just, um,
to, like to mention some key concepts that underpin all our external
reporting frameworks and standards, which we believe are sort of relevant
for this inquiry. Um, and then sort of talk about the key
opportunities for reform that we see.
The starting point for any external reporting frameworks is user needs.
And the users in this context are obviously Parliament and the public.
Um, and the other point is, we really sort of strongly
emphasize is that reporting is not an end in itself, it's there to serve a
purpose. The information that is produced should be useful and
used. Um,
we recommend therefore that the, uh, committee as it, as it works its way through
this next phase of the inquiry really just focus on, strongly focus on user
needs. Uh, because they are diverse, wide-ranging, and trying to be
specific as possible, uh, in terms of meeting the purpose.
We agree with the, the key purpose, um, the inter- the committee's
interim report that the purpose of the system is to provide information that
enables accountability, improvement, and trust.
Uh, we also suggest that information should inform
decision-making. This is a key conceptual underpinning of all
external reporting frameworks that should also inform, um,
decisions. Is it decision useful information, um,
for Parliament, the public, and indeed the executive?
I just briefly wanna talk about four key opportunities for reform that we see.
I've sort of talked about the why, uh, was, well, what are we trying to achieve?
The next two are really about the what information.
Better meeting user needs for outcome-focused long-term information.
The committee's report has very clearly highlighted that as being a key
gap, uh, and we would agree. This will require quite different
thinking about, uh, the different levels of reporting. Is it sector level?
Is it whole of government level? What do you need at an appropriation level?
There are also opportunities to leverage other frameworks.
So that's one of the what's. The second what we do see as a big
opportunity here is a simplification of the, of the reporting
landscape, which once again has been highlighted in the committee's int- interim
report. The landscape is cluttered and complex.
Um, balancing user needs, cost, and benefit will be absolutely crucial
to the committee reaching its, uh, views about the recommendations that you want to
make. Is there an opportunity to think about more targeted,
more tailored information
that might be more efficient and effective?
Um, so that's the second what. The- the other key
opportunity, which once again is highlighted in the committee's report as
enabler, is the how. Investing in the capability required to
report non-financial information well.
This includes the people, planning and evaluation frameworks, the data,
and we would emphasize the modern technology platforms.
Um-We would not underestimate the size of the, the effort
involved in getting the capability revived and I think the lessons from previous
reforms offer a blueprint there of how, what might, you might not
want to do and what you might want to,
uh, do. Uh, it is something we, as standard setters, are spending an increasing
amount of time on supporting the implementation.
Lastly, thinking about the assurance that you require.
Um, there is a different, there's, you know, the world of assurance is
evolving internationally, locally, there's a mix of di-, um,
assurance products-
(coughs)
... that fit the nature of reporting.
What do you absolutely want to have trust in?
What type of trust? Um, so I think that's an- another area that we would
absolutely endorse, um, looking at.
Finally, just sort of repeating a little bit of what, uh, John said, we're really
well-placed to support the committee's work and welcome the opportunity to do so.
We have system-wide perspectives, um, technical capability and
established stakeholder engagement processes, well-connected
internationally and locally, uh, with the Treasury, the OAG, uh,
locally, regulators, reporting entities, um, international s-
bodies, other jurisdictions, Australia, Europe, UK,
Canada, you name it. Um, and as I said, we do support
implementation so we do have some experience really about what are the ways in
which you might phase change, how do you support everybody
participating in the system. I'll stop there, uh, and, um,
those are the key points we wanted to highlight, Chair, and very, um, you know,
welcome any questions that the committee might have.
Oh, very good. Thank you.
Yeah.
Uh, we're gonna go to Dr. Wilson and then we'll go to Dr.
Woods-
And thank you.
... and, and Dr. Russell.
Okay. Very interesting that you're, you've got a seeming dichotomy
between financial and non-financial.
Mm-hmm.
Um, and of course, one of the key tools that we use for investment and whether it's
any policy-
Yeah.
... agency or government entity is-
... investment, money.
Yeah.
Um, (clears throat) so could you just explain how you will draw those concepts
together in terms of the new frameworks that you're thinking about?
Yeah.
Because, you know, those things are completely related in a lot of ways.
And it makes a big difference to-
Yeah.
... how you explain it.
Yeah. No, thank you. Uh, and that's a excellent point.
I think in, in terms of we talk about it as being, well the, the
money is there to enable people to do things, whether-
Yeah.
... it's, um, and, um, at, uh, a really simple level.
So thinking about financial and non-financial performance and, and the
frameworks that we use are actually fundamental to, you know, it is, uh, here's the
cost and, and is it producing the right benefit?
Um, we do have a, the service performance, uh, reporting framework that
underpins the reporting and the public benefit entity, which is both the, uh,
public sector and the not-for-profit that has obviously
underpinned some of that reporting at the entity level.
Um,
I think our experience would say that the frameworks themselves, and some recent
consultation that we've done in the not-for-profit sector, that the
frameworks and the thinking are there but people are not actually, as you say,
don't quite have the muscle memory, don't have the capability to think about
actually what is truly good measures of performance.
That's where the struggle often happens.
Mm-hmm.
There is also, in terms of other frameworks, um, which we would, um,
which we have highlighted in our submission, is the sort of what we, you know, is
often call integrated reported, reporting, and integrated
thinking. And I think the committee's advisors have drawn some of those to the,
your, your attention to do. Which are not, to me, if you stand
back from this, is, um,
it, it all drives from good governance, good management, good focus
on, on what performance looks like to you, whether it's financial performance or
non-financial performance. So some of those integrated reporting
frameworks, um, do sort of encourage that thinking to happen within the
organization. So those are probably a couple of the key points I'd make.
Yeah. Because I think the-
Yeah.
... the key question that the public's gonna be asking and so will we is-
... "Okay, we've invested this much and we wanted these outcomes.
How did that work and why?"
Yeah.
And in what respect?
David, can you bring the microphone closer to your mouth? It's hard to hear you.
Sure.
Yeah.
You, did you hear that okay, Megan?
Mm-hmm.
What I just said?
Yep. No, I just-
Yeah, I think you had your hand up too.
Yeah.
Yeah, um, yeah. No, ab- absolutely.
I think that's, uh, I, I think that's at the fundamental heart of our
framework or something. I might invite Michelle to-
Okay.
... comment on that because, uh, we do, we do hear internationally some of these
same, trying to draw the connections-
Yeah. ... whether it's sustainability information, if it's climate reporting, whatever
you might do, these are con- conversations happening internationally too, is how do
you make sure that you are getting good information about the
organization, whether, no matter which, um, sector they're in.
Yeah. And you're asking the question-
Yeah.
... whether or not we invest more in this area, program-
... project, whatever it is, what sort of outcomes are we likely to get?
Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.
Okay. Right, we're gonna go to Dr. Woods.
Thank you. Um, and thank you very much for your submission.
Um, really useful. The thing I'm interested in is the
utilization of these reports.
Yeah.
So we can produce all the reports we want, the question is how the executive
or the parliament uses them in terms of, um,
measuring per- the performance and particularly their non-financial.
Yeah.
What do you see as being some of the critical interfaces with the
executive?
Yeah.
Um, is it through DPMC, so feeding into something like a cabinet
prio- a Cabinet Priorities Committee framework to measure their
performance? Is it, um, a supplementary report?
Select committees get reports from the Auditor-General, uh, when we, when we do our
scrutiny. Do you see feeding into that?
Where do you see those critical interfaces being?
Um, yeah, that's a great question.
Um, I'd, hmm, I would... As a
start off thing, I think the answer will be that there's probably a few things to
sort of work through in there. But my, um, one of the key things which has come up,
the, is around the sectors. Like, what are the, uh, what- what's the nature of the
information that's g- will be most useful, um, for
select committees?
Mm-hmm.
You would be thinking about how select committees are organized, what sort of
information that, uh, is relevant for each committee.
Then I think there is a case of actually working through the accountability, uh,
that individual agencies have. What's the role of central
agencies?Um, I think the committee's...
You know, there has been information that you've, I think, in your report which
sort of says, really starting from that enduring outcomes, what are the priority
objectives? For us, a really crucial piece of that is really
getting a clarity on what are the objectives of the reporting,
and then the structures and the right format of the reporting will, will flow,
will flow from that. So it doesn't...
I think you are a- asking a little bit about how the executive works, uh, which
may be, you know, might be Treasury to, or the OAG, to sort of advise on,
on that, um, through your chair. But
I, I don't think
there is a lot of information produced.
Yeah.
Um,
some of it is core accountability information.
Information is produced in other forms.
So, I think, to, to my mind, is sort of a lot of the thinking will
be in actually the design of simplifying what is the most useful information,
and then, to be honest the, the, the system could work to produce that
information. It is, it is re- really about, um, focusing on the
purpose. But yeah, I'm not sure I fully answered your question, but I think that's-
Yeah.
... that's my, my sort of best way of, o- off addressing what you were, what I
think you were trying to, to get at.
I guess, yeah, one of the things that I'm interested in is-
Yeah.
Yeah. ... um,
if we have good reporting-
Yeah.
... we may well, um, d- discover some red flags-
... um, that need, that need to be considered-
Yeah.
... either by the executive, or Parliament, or both.
Yeah. Yeah.
How do we ensure that happens? A lot of reporting is produced across all of
government.
Mm-hmm.
How do we ensure that this actually has a way to
actually b- being utilized so we can see
early on in a program-
Yeah.
... in terms of those non-financial performance measures that it may not be
working? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Did you... No, uh, it looks like Michelle's wanting to say something,
so, uh, yeah.
I always say reporting is the end means, right?
Yeah.
And that's what you get at the back end.
It's also about how the intervention logic or the thinking processes work and how
it stacks up before you get to the reporting itself.
So that's where you do think about the assurance products and how that-
Yeah.
... you can leverage through that, where you potentially, um, bring in
assurance, different types of assurance earlier in the piece, and making sure
those entities are actually able to report correctly.
Yeah.
I think there's an element of that, and then at the back end when the reporting
actually happens, um, as Wendy has said, being clear on what the
information is for what purpose is quite critical in this piece because
bringing it back to framing up what's in that report then
is easier to identify in making those clear links.
Um, one more thing I would say is the proportionate reporting.
Uh, I think we have a fixed mindset about annual reporting.
Yeah.
And maybe that's not necessarily the requirement for non-financial information.
There's potentially a piece here where you really think about or really
criticize that and think, well, from a non-financial
perspective, what does this information look like and how often
are entities having to report?
Yeah.
And what level of reporting is, what level of entities is required?
I don't think every single le- well, my opinion is I don't think every
single level of entity needs to be reporting on non-financial information within
government.
Thank you. Very good. Uh, Dr. Russell?
So, um, we've been talking about reporting financial information and, and i- it's
really useful in terms of the annual reports and that part of the reporting cycle
for government entities. But a whole set of the opaqueness that
I find, um, even as an accountant, comes with the budget
reporting.
Right.
And it's the way that we talk about what, what expenditure is
planned, where the money is sourced from, whether it's an increase or a decrease.
And I'm, you know, I'm an accountant and I find those damn things hard to read.
Yeah.
Um, so have you given any thought to that part of our reporting
cycle?
Yeah. Um,
yes, I think it, it is part of the entire picture, right?
It comes back to what's the setting.
Um, and actually in my, one of my prior lives I spent probably,
well, a good... Many months in the Auditor-General's office advising this
committee, I should say. So, uh, for my sins had to, um, had to sort
of look through a lot of budget documents, so I would agree with that, that it is,
it is complex. Um, making the connections right at that start, from the
budget process. What, you know, what are we trying to achieve?
Where's the money going? What are the measures?
I think there's an element which had been drawn out in the committee's report.
So a lot of those, these problems have been identified as, do you want
information at the appropriation level or do you need it at the outcome level?
Um, simplifying that aspect of it will also
be, be helpful. Thinking about how technology plays a
part in giving you ready access to the right information to navigate, because
often these things have to be built up, right, through a complicate- uh,
complicated system. Uh, but how do you get to a point
where, uh, committees, select committees, this committee,
can actually sort of easily sort of engage on the right information sets that are
useful for whatever it is that you're scrutinizing.
Um, so yeah, definitely opportunities to...
I see it as, we see it as part of the entire system of reporting.
Yeah.
Okay. Uh, Mr. Simonson?
Oh, well, I was just gonna... I think that kind of actually-
Yeah. ... answers a bit of what I was... So, one, I want to say thanks for your very
detailed submission. You're actually our first, uh, submitters on this since we put
out our... Well, to appear before us for an interim report. Very helpful.
Yeah, I really just wanted to call out, I think your point about user needs.
Mm-hmm.
Government is very good at just creating a system that suits,
I don't know, the system, rather than actually thinking about the end user.
And I think, again, I think... Thank you for offering.
It may be we want to come back to you at some point and test some of these things
around that user needs.
Because I think if we don't get that right-
Yeah.
... everything else is going to be wasted.
Thank you. That's...
That was a great point to finish on. I would, I would have em- emphasized that.
So we very much appreciate your time and thank you for
Okay. No, thank you, uh, to the chief executive and to the
chair, uh, and to the, um, director.
Thank you so much for coming in, uh, on behalf of the External Reporting Board, uh,
for our Performance Reporting and Public Inquir- uh, Accountability Inquiry
Hearings.
We know you'll be watching.
Members, members, we have got a couple more next week.
Uh, we've got the public sector one that's going to be fronted by the ch-
chief executive of IR and the Ministry for Women, and we've
got an individual submission as well.
So, um, that's something to look forward to next week. Right, that brings us...
Thank you so much. (clears throat) That brings us to the Chartered
Accountants Australia and New Zealand for our next, uh, segment.
... on the Financial Markets Conduct Amendment Bill.
Uh-
And this is on the removing the climate stuff, isn't it?
Well, this is on the changing the climate disclosure
thresholds-
Disclosure.
... um, that the minister, Scott Simpson, um, has
put out an amendment paper and, uh, subsequently we called for
submissions and we are now hearing submissions today.
Uh, as of now, we've got Chartered Accountants Australia in New Zealand,
and we've also got submissions, just for the benefit of our live audience, um, from
1:00 this
afternoon.
You'll also note the previous, um, firms have written in
support of CAANZ's, uh, submission,
uh, and so we look forward to your presentation.
Welcome.
Thank you. Um, and thank you for the opportunity to appear today.
Uh, my name is Karen McWilliams and I'm the sustainability leader at Chartered
Accountants Australia New Zealand, and I'm joined by my colleague Lydia Sen, who's
the New Zealand government affairs leader.
We're the professional body for chartered accountants and have 31,000 members here
in New Zealand. Um, CAANZ advocates in the public good on
behalf of our members, and our members play a critical role in preparing and
assuring climate-related disclosures.
We have closely engaged in the climate-related disclosure regime since the initial
consultations began in 2019 and are supporting the ongoing
implementation. We provided a submission to MBIE at the beginning of
this year in response to their discussion document on adjustments to the
regime. Better disclosure facilitates more informed
decision-making and makes international investment to support, I'm
sorry, and drives international investment to support New Zealand's economic
growth. We understand there are concerns from reporting entities about the costs
incurred during these initial years of disclosure.
However, the reporting entities have now built those skills and processes needed to
meet the current requirements, and we're beginning to see the shift to more
strategic benefits. The proposed changes to increase the reporting
thresholds will reduce the effectiveness of New Zealand's climate-related
disclosures regime at a time when global expectations in investor demand for
this information are increasing.
So thank you, Chair, and we welcome the committee's questions.
Oh, very good. Okay. Questions, I've got Dr. Russell. Oh.
Mm-hmm.
Um, thank you.
(laughs)
Appreciate the brevity of your submission and the very direct points there.
I have been discussing these issues with various, um, climate-related entities
and one of the suggestions from them has been that even if we do just
these, um, the way we do it in New Zealand, perhaps doing, just aligning ourselves
with what Australia does would be helpful, um, in, in terms of
their climate-related disclosures. Do you have a view on that?
Um, well I think it's important to note that, that Australia's regime, um, will
bring in approximately 8,000 entities over the next two to three
years. Um, so the threshold in Australia's regime is the same as
for financial reporting, um, so it takes it down to roughly 50 million
turnover and 25 million assets under management or 100 employees, so you
meet two out of those three. Um, it also includes asset managers and unlisted
entities. So I think New Zealand's original sort of thresholds are
probably more aligned with where Australia will end up, albeit that
there's a difference in the phasing and the timing.
Um, so I guess the proposed amendments in New Zealand will probably reduce
the, the number of entities reporting now to under 80, so that's quite a
distinction there. Um, also should mention that, um, uh,
Australia's regime will include unlisted entities as well.
Um, so there are quite some, with the proposed thresholds here to
remove, um, ex-asset managers and increase the threshold to one billion market
capitalization, we're looking at quite different, um, thresholds and number of
entities that will be reporting.
So we're moving into a situation where, um, we are reporting much
less than our, our major trading partner.
Yeah.
Um, and I would imagine too a lot of the firms here, um,
well, um, plenty of the, the, uh, Australian-owned
entities here would have to report enough information to enable their
Australian parents to report accurately as well anyway.
Yeah. There wi- there will be some information, um, I guess, sharing around that,
um, that will certainly sort of take place.
Um, but I think it's certainly clear that, that, um, that there's a difference in
the phasing, but the ultimate, um, sort of end thresholds are now gonna be
quite, quite different.
Right. Okay.
Okay. Dr. Woods?
Thank you. And thank you very much for your submission.
I'm really interested in the remarks you made around the
implications and impact on investment.
Um, we're hearing through another, a number of submissions that
the fragmentan- fragmented
inconsistencies creates uncertainty and
that that can go on to affect valuations, discount rates, s-
investment strategy, and ultimately the competitiveness of New Zealand
companies seeking capital at home and abroad.
So I'd just like to, to hear a bit more from you around what the
consequences in terms of investment could be for New
Zealand.
Yeah, so I guess we are seeing very strongly globally, um,
demand for this type of information, um,
and, um, that sort of, and that coming from the capital markets and
coming from investors. Um, so obviously, um, the absence
of New Zealand companies preparing this information, um, means
that investors will be having to make their own
assumptions around the associated climate risks and
opportunities in relation to New Zealand entities, and those assumptions may well
be incorrect. Um, so by not providing that information and
informing the market accurately, um, those investors will make
assumptions. And of course, typically if you don't have the information, you're
gonna be relatively more conservative than you might be if you had, um,
information. So I think that's the impact that we're certainly gonna see,
um, which is there's gonna be an assumption that New Zealand companies are
much greater exposed to, to risks than perhaps they are in the
absence of information. And that will therefore have knock-on effects,
um, for the, that provider of finance.
Thank you.
Okay, uh, Dr. Russell-
So just— just following on from that, um, can you see a
situation where even if this information is not
required by law, that potential investors
or stock markets or other
regulators, if you like, if, even if they're private, um, you know, um, not
government regulators, um,
might demand the information anyway? I'm just trying to think here.
You know, audit- auditing started because investors demanded it, not because
governments required it.
Mm.
I mean, certainly, um, I guess what we've seen globally is that,
um, there were increasing demand, and I guess we've seen increasing demand for
climate disclosures in a voluntary capacity.
I think the challenge is that those existing voluntary frameworks were not
sufficient to meet the information needs of investors and, and providers of
capital. So what they're really looking for is ensuring that entities are
reporting to the same standards, disclosing the same information, make it, making
it consistent and comparable. Um-
So I guess that's the a- that's what was missing in the voluntary regime, and we
did see a lot of stock markets around the world bringing it into, bringing the T-
CFDs, the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
They were bringing that into their listing rules, um, as, as a requirement through
that, um, but it wasn't really sufficient, I guess, from an, a global
investor perspective, and that's where we've seen that drive
for-
Okay. ... regulated standards.
Thank, thank you so much, uh, to, to CANZ, the Chartered Accountants of
Australia and New Zealand, for your submission.
Mm-hmm.
I'm keen to give everyone 10 minutes this morning 'cause we're on a hard finish, so
thank you. We appreciate.
Great submission.
Thank you.
Thank
you. Thank you. Okay, that takes us to, um,
Chapman Tripp, uh, who are also online with, you've
handed out a supplementary, um, submission in hard copy
form.
Raja,
very good to see you.
Well, thank you.
Uh, welcome. Good, good morning. Welcome to
our, uh-
Um- ... hearings on the, on the-
Morning.
... amendment paper. We're in your hands.
You've got 10
minutes.
Sure. Um, I plan to keep this reasonably brief, um, 'cause I
can take the written, uh, submission as read.
Don't plan to, uh, get into a lot of detail about the reason for the
bill. Uh, broadly, we're supportive of it.
Um, we've practiced in this area since inception, uh,
and worked along with our clients.
It's simply proved to be a little bit too cumbersome, um,
in that the benefits of the regime have not yet, um, matched
the cost of them. I think the regulatory impact statement that was attached to the
Cabinet paper
recommending the reset of the threshold sets out nicely the,
um, various considerations around that.
Um,
I, I guess the central theme of some of the written submissions are that one of the
mistakes made in designing this regime at the outset was to try and
treat climate statements as if they were financial statements.
Mm.
Um, so there's a lot of focus on, um, the approach taken, uh,
to financial reporting, which hasn't adapted that well, um, to, to climate
statement reporting. Um, one of those is the way that you
measure whether you're in the regime.
In the financial reporting context, you look back a couple years and look at what
the financial statements said to determine whether or not you're going to need to,
uh, prepare full reports and, and if you're overseas, unfile them.
Um, that hasn't really worked that well in this area because it means two things.
One, you're really looking two or three years ago, in, at the values that
were, um, apparent then, particularly for listed
companies, um, rather than the more immediate period.
In the case of listed companies, market capitalization, which is the core
threshold, is measured every single day, so it's not as if you're not gonna know
whether you're likely to be, be in the regime by measuring it on a more timely
basis. Correspondingly, if you think about someone that's newly
listed, the way the regime's measured at the moment, you don't then
become subject to the regime
potentially for up to three years after you become listed.
S- so there's just a bit of, bit of mismatch there reflecting some concepts
taken from the financial reporting concept that, that don't really work.
One of the core, um, features of the change that we strongly support
is the removal of deemed director liability, the personalization of
liability for directors. E- essentially the policy approach has been to
treat a set of climate statements as if they were a prospectus and so impose
personal liability on the directors as well as the reporting entity
itself. However, this is a very technical area where
significant consulting support is needed.
The, uh, climate statements are technical, evolving, and
complicated. The international standards are going in a slightly different
direction. So we support the minister's, um,
changes reflected in the amendment paper to center the liability only
on the reporting entity rather than the individual directors and, and think that
will bring several benefits. It will mean that, um, directors
can focus on the more strategic matters rather than worrying about their personal
risk and having to be personally involved in some quite technical
disclosures. It means that the reporting entities might
be a little bit more courageous about some of the disclosures that they seek to
make rather than
sort of the first question being top of mind is, "Is this gonna create a liability
for me?" So
we strongly support the, uh, change in approach.
If I then take it back to the financial reporting analogy, the same issue arises in
the context of financial statements, so our submission also submits that the
commission, that the committee should go a bit further and recommend that the
deemed personalization of liability be also taken away from directors
for producing financial statements, again, for the same reasons.
It's become increasingly technical, complicated, uh, doesn't,
um, under the current construct, allow directors to easily delegate
tasks that might be better del- delegated to an audit committee or to involve,
to a greater degree, investment professionals, um, rather than individual directors
who can't be expected to s- have the same, uh, kind of
knowledge.The third area where, again, um, drawing
on financial reporting concepts hasn't worked that well, is the incredibly broad
notion of climate records. In the context of preparing financial statements,
it's appropriate for accounting records to be very broadly defined and to
include all of the primary evidence to make up, um, what's
needed to record financial statements, invoices, purchase orders, et
cetera. However, in applying that same definition in the climate statement
area, it's meant that there's a very wide catchment of records that need to be kept
for seven years. In theory, the FMA can turn up to reception with a
notice and ask to inspect them all.
And so we submit that, uh, an alternative and preferable approach
would be to take the approach the Australians have and focus on records that
really go to, um, what is needed to support the disclosures made
in the climate statements rather than the underlying primary records, which in many
cases will be duplicative and quite comprehensive, um, when
that level of, um, record keeping
is unnecessary to support the core disclosures.
In terms of the supplementary submission, um, that essentially just
suggests to the committee that it would be useful to put into
the legislation the purpose for this regime.
It was included in the general policy statement for the original bill, um, but for
some reason wasn't included in the bill itself.
That would be useful because I think there has been some confusion about what this
regime is trying to solve for. Uh, it- it doesn't, um, seek to
provide, uh, a- a comprehensive view
of, uh, climate risk or- or- or climate considerations for the entire
economy because the application is essentially only to banks and very large
listed companies is in fact a very small part of the economy.
It's only about 12- 12% of the economy.
And so it doesn't have that broader objective that some users might
perceive. The original purpose of the regime was to try and help
investors with capital allocation decisions, and the reality is, uh,
offshore investors will typically only be looking at our very large companies.
So again, the, um, resetting of the thresholds to our very
large companies, um, sit with that, uh, core purpose of,
um, assisting capital allocation decisions, whi- which is, um,
reflected in paragraph C of the purpose provision that was in the original,
um, general policy statement on the bill.
But that in summary, uh, Chair, is the, uh, points I
wa- wanted to make, um, verbally and open to any questions.
Right. Th- thank you. We've got, uh, Dr. Russell.
(clears throat) Oh, (foreign language) Roger.
Nice to say hello after corresponding with you for some time over various issues.
So, um-
(laughs)
... maybe we'll meet in person one day.
Um, uh, uh, I take your point about directors' liability.
That seems, um, reasonable with respect to climate.
I'm, um, I'd have to think a bit more about financial statements.
Um, but we just heard from, um, Chartered Accounts Australia in New Zealand and
the way that we're resetting these climate reporting thresholds
is going to make it, uh, set at a much, much higher level than, um,
say Australia. I wondered what your view would be on us aligning
our climate reporting requirements with what Australia is doing.
Um-
Yeah, I do- I don't, I don't agree with that, um, at two levels.
O- o- one, the ra- the Australian regime is coming in on a
staggered basis. It's gonna take about six years to be fully implemented.
Yep.
Um, so the so-called group one level are comparable to,
um, the set- setting that's been chosen, um,
by reference to market capitalization.
So it requires hundreds of million dollars of revenue and assets in
Australia. It's also a two out of three test in Australia.
You need to think about the assets, the revenue and the employees.
So some businesses have a lot of one, but not a lot of the other two.
Mm-hmm.
And so deceptively, um, you know, it might appear that the thresholds
are lower in Australia. They're actually not when you come to measure it against
some of the larger corporations. You know, an asset rich corporation might have
relatively low income, uh, and no employees so would fall
outside the Australian regime. So our, our regime I think is comparable for
where the Australian regime will be for the next, um, two or three years.
But fundamentally the Australian regime takes a different approach.
It apprise- it applies it to all enterprises across the entire economy, including
government, whereas the New Zealand regime as introduced back in 2021
is focused only on a very small part of the financial sector.
And so if you were to reset the regime, uh, to
track, uh, the latest scope of the Australian regime, you'd
be repealing entirely Part 7A of the Financial Markets Conduct Act and
you'd be putting in place a statute of general application to all business forms,
not just those in the financial community.
Mm-hmm.
And so it would be quite wrong to
adopt as, as the last submitter said, you know, the so-called group three level
of disclosure, which in Australia will capture 8,000 indus- uh,
enterprises, um, but only try and apply that to the financial sector in New
Zealand. That would make us very uncompetitive.
Mm-hmm.
Um, we are competing for global capital and anything that increases the costs
for, um, uh, making investment, particularly at the managed fund level,
which is, uh, is proposed to come entirely out of the regime, uh,
is gonna make us less competitive to- to- to other jurisdictions that don't have
this regime. So I- I just don't agree with that.
I think the thresholds are comparable at the moment.
The regime in Australia is fundamentally different, um, and I suspect the
Australians will find, as we did three or four years into it, that that
group three level is just unworkable to- to try and extend it.
Okay. Do you have another one, Deborah?
No, that's okay. I'll leave it at that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Anyone else?
Concur with
the submission. All right. We'll leave it at that. Thank you, Roger.
Thank you for your, um, supplementary submission and appearing before us this
morning.
Thank you.
Okay. Agreed.
Okay. Thank you. Okay. That leads us to our last one for this
morning before we resume at 1:00.Ah, we've got Amy
Hines here, GM of Financial Services Council.
Good morning, committee. Good morning, Chair.
Good morning.
Um, I'll take our submission as read and I'll make some brief comments for you-
Thank you.
... from there. Um, thank you members and the committee for your time.
I'm Amy Hines, the general manager advocacy at the Financial Services
Council. Um, the FSC welcomes proposed amendments to the
Financial Markets Conduct Bill in amendment paper 446 as
pragmatic recalibration of the climate-related disclosure
scheme. The FSC has over 110 members, over 100
billion in funds, and paying over $2.8 billion in claims annually.
(man sneezes) Our members, as you know, are life, health, disability, income
insurers, fund managers, KiwiSaver and workplace savings
schemes, and professional services and technology providers.
Our submissions and our comments, comments also have been brought together with our
members. These changes proposed represent a right sizing of
regulation, ensuring the framework is fit for purpose,
balancing transparency, proportionality, and market
competitiveness. These changes enable for the way that
reducing, uh, compliance burden by raising the reporting threshold
from 60 million to 100 billion market cap, preventing
small issuers from facing disproportionate costs.
It also encourages market participation by removing managed
investment schemes from the regime, aligns with investor feedback, and
avoids unnecessary complexity. Also, it
maintains robust standards. Adjusted liability se- settings for
directors strike the right balance.
It preserves accountability without discouraging detailed
disclosures. We note some comments in our substantive
submission, although I wanted to highlight the area of the transitional
provisions. Section 416T1 creates
unintended consequences with entities falling outside the scope may still
need to report for multiple years.
We have a simple fix for the committee to make, add tre- transitional
provisions to clause 108 to clarify that these entities are
not required to prepare climate reports for accounting pur- purpose
areas described in clause 108, uh,
one. But also, we also do in our submission, we suggest that the
committee can take one step further here.
There's a further opportunity for the committee around life and health insurers.
They are a current an- anomaly in the system.
Life and health insurers remain captured by the CRD regime, despite
their business model being fundamentally different from property or general
insurers. Why exclude them? They're largely service-based
organizations with minimal physical assets and materially smaller
direct commissions, just like those organizations who have been proposed to be
excluded. Their compliance costs are disproportionate and deliver little
meaningful climate insight. Insurers estimated the cost added to
them each year is over 500K for a smaller outfit to
over a million dollars plus for the larges.
The regulatory focus remains on sectors where climate risk is
operationally material and disclosures can drive tangible emissions and
reductions. The policy alignment here, excluding life and
health insurance is consistent with the policy directions of the cabinet and the
current changes, which aim to reduce unnecessary
burden. Um, the influ- way influence, these areas
can influence, banks in general influ- um, insurers can influence climate
outcomes through lending and property insurance.
Life and health insurance do not have the equivalent levers.
Um, there is also existing oversight here.
So RBNZ guidance under the IPSA currently
requires insurers to consider climate risk.
Adding CRD obligations creates regulatory duplication without
net benefit. Um, also the audin- audience here,
climate standards are designed for investors and lenders, not consumers who are
seeking life and health insurance.
Insurers have told us that downloads of disclosures are at a bare minimum, with
one lessurer telling us that there was three downloads, of which
two were from their internal staff.
And from a practicality aspect, Southern Cross Medical Care Society is a
climate reporting entity despite having no investors or
lenders. Its climate statements assume an investor audience,
which does not match its consumer base.
This illustrates the disconnect between CRD obligations and the reality of
life and health insurance ob- obligations.
To conclude, you know, we support the intent of the proposed changes in the
amendment paper of course, but we also think that, that the select committee
can go one step forward and make some recommendations in the
CRD scheme for life and health insurance to ens- ensure it's consistent
and supports the policy goal of the proposed changes.
It's no net market benefit from these entities preparing climate statements given
RBNZ's prudential, prudential supervision address already
addresses climate risk, and the materiality assumptions for an audience
that does not exist in the sense there's no primary users.
And keeping these entities in the regime implies they wield a market
influence of registered bank or a large listed entity, an assumption
that is not appropriate. Thank
Okay, thank you, Amy. I've got a question here from Todd Stevens.
Thanks, um, point well-made, it's a good one about the, um,
health.
Thanks, Todd.
Uh, actually I was just wanted to get your comments.
Y- I don't know if you heard the last submitter, but-
Yes, I did.
He actually said that we should look at putting the, some of the purpose statements
in in- including... 'Cause basically what you're saying is actually what you're
suggesting would actually align with this idea that it was being done to
efficiently allocate capital, is, is in the-
It's mandated.
Yeah, so did you think that might be-
Chair, matric statements are really on board with what the sector, um, proposes and
they make some really, um, good suggestions there.
Okay. No, well thank you for your submission. It's useful.
Okay, any other questions members?
No?
Okay, thank you.
Thanks
for being- Thank you members.
Thank you submitters. We will resume bang on at one
o'clock-
(laughs)
... uh, with the Financial Services Federation to continue the hearings.
Thank you.
It's just-
I don't want to go home under-
That's all right. (laughs)
Oh,
(laughs)